---
layout: post
title:  "Euclidian vs LogFold vs Manhatten vs The State of New Mexico"
date:  2021-01-26
excerpt: "What's the best distance metric for Microbiomics and why?"
image: "/images/pic01.jpg"
type: "bio"
---

# Euclidian vs LogFold vs Manhatten vs Hamming vs Great Circle vs Other Distance Measures, and what is best for Microbiome Data?

## Intro: Many intro-courses to data-analysis tell you the "how" and the rules-of-thumb for picking between different methods for analyzing data. That seems to be the case in my research to discover optimal setups for studying Microbiome data. Furthermore, the differences are sometimes treated as arbitrary when the results end up the same.

But I am a trained mathematician, and I feel this lacadazical treatment to the speficity of measurment doesn't live up to my
standards. I will thus try to investigate which distances are
used for which cases in Microbiome research and why. I will try to make that as formal and mathematically savy as possible.

## 1: The options:

### 1.1: Principal Componant Analysis

I will use https://builtin.com/data-science/step-step-explanation-principal-component-analysis as
my main form of guidance for 1.1:

Given some data with n dimensions (columns), if n is very large, say 3 or more, then we would like to reduce n to something more manageable, like 2. PCA is a method of dimension-reduction, i.e. it takes all our columns and distills it down to some smaller, simpler information.

### 1.2: Principal Coordinate Analysis

### 1.3: LogFold

### 1.4: Manhatten

### 1.5: Hamming

### 1.6: Great Circle

## 2: Measures in Microbiomics

### 2.1:

### 2.2: The Book...

## 3: Despite what is used, what should be used?

### 3.1: Why Microbiomics has been using ...

### 3.2: Costum options?

### 3.3: Does it matter?

3
